reference: update documents for new collation (#2350)
pingcap/docs: reference/sql/characterset-and-collation.md

---
title: Character Set and Collation

> summary: Learn about the supported character sets in TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn about the supported character sets and collations in TiDB.
```

category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/dev/reference/sql/character-set/']
---

# Character Set and Collation

A character set is a set of symbols and encodings. A collation is a set of rules for comparing characters in a character set.

Currently, TiDB supports the following character sets:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CHARACTER SET;
```

```sql
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| Charset | Description   | Default collation | Maxlen |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
| utf8    | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8_bin          |      3 |
| utf8mb4 | UTF-8 Unicode | utf8mb4_bin       |      4 |
| ascii   | US ASCII      | ascii_bin         |      1 |
| latin1  | Latin1        | latin1_bin        |      1 |
| binary  | binary        | binary            |      1 |
+---------|---------------|-------------------|--------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>
> Each character set might correspond to multiple collations, but by default each character set corresponds to only one collation.

> You can use the following statement to view the collation (under the [new framework for collations](#new-framework-for-collations)) that corresponds to the character set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following statement to view the collations (under the [new framework for collations](#new-framework-for-collations)) that corresponds to the character set.
```

```

```sql
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
use test1;
```

```sql
Database changed
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
```

```sql
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| utf8mb4                  | uft8mb4_general_ci   |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
create schema test2 character set latin1 COLLATE latin1_bin;
```

```sql
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
use test2;
```

```sql
Database changed
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT @@character_set_database, @@collation_database;
```

```sql
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| @@character_set_database | @@collation_database |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
| latin1                   | latin1_bin           |
+--------------------------|----------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

You can also see the two values in `INFORMATION_SCHEMA`:

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
```

SELECT DEFAULT_CHARACTER_SET_NAME, DEFAULT_COLLATION_NAME
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SCHEMATA WHERE SCHEMA_NAME = 'db_name';
```

## Table character set and collation

You can use the following statement to specify the character set and collation for tables:

```sql
CREATE TABLE tbl_name (column_list)
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]]

ALTER TABLE tbl_name
    [[DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE t1(a int) CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_general_ci;
```

```sql
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)
```

> The database character set and collation are used as the default values for table definitions if the table character set and collation are not specified in individual column definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the table character set and collation are not specified, the database character set and collation are used as their default values. 
```

## Column character set and collation

> See the following table for the character set and collation syntax for columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following statement to specify the character set and collation for columns:
```

```sql
col_name {CHAR | VARCHAR | TEXT} (col_length)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]

col_name {ENUM | SET} (val_list)
    [CHARACTER SET charset_name]
    [COLLATE collation_name]
```

> The table character set and collation are used as the default values for column definitions if the column character set and collation are not specified in individual column definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the column character set and collation are not specified, the table character set and collation are used as their default values. 
```

## String character sets and collation

> Each character literal in a string has a character set and a collation. When you use a string, this option is available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each string corresponds to a character set and a collation. When you use a string, this option is available:
```

> Each character literal in a string has a character set and a collation. When you use a string, this option is available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each string corresponds to a character set and a collation. When you use a string, this option is available:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
[_charset_name]'string' [COLLATE collation_name]
```

Example:

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
```

SELECT 'string';
SELECT _utf8mb4'string';
SELECT _utf8mb4'string' COLLATE utf8mb4_general_ci;
```

Rules:

> + Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name` are used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and `collation_name` are used directly.
```
I changed the zh doc in https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/3056

> + Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` but do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and the default collation of `CHARACTER SET charset_name` are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` but do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, `charset_name` and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.
```

+ Rule 3: If you specify neither `CHARACTER SET charset_name` nor `COLLATE collation_name`, the character set and collation given by the system variables `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` are used.

> ## Connection character sets and collations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Client connection character set and collation
```

+ The server character set and collation are the values of the `character_set_server` and `collation_server` system variables.

> + The character set and collation of the default database are the values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` system variables. You can use `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` to specify the character set and collation for each connection. The `character_set_client` variable is to set the client character set. Before returning the result, the `character_set_results` system variable indicates the character set in which the server returns query results to the client, including the metadata of the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ The character set and collation of the default database are the values of the `character_set_database` and `collation_database` environment variables.

You can use `character_set_connection` and `collation_connection` to specify the character set and collation for each client connection.

The `character_set_client` variable is to set the client character set. Before returning the result, the server converts the query result to the character set corresponding to the `character_set_results` variable, including the metadata of the result.
```

> You can use the following statement to specify a particular collation that is related to the client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following statement to set the character set and collation that is related to the client:
```

+ `SET NAMES 'charset_name' [COLLATE 'collation_name']`

    `SET NAMES` indicates what character set the client will use to send SQL statements to the server. `SET NAMES utf8mb4` indicates that all the requests from the client use utf8mb4, as well as the results from the server.

    The `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET character_set_connection = charset_name;
    ```

    `COLLATE` is optional, if absent, the default collation of the `charset_name` is used.

+ `SET CHARACTER SET 'charset_name'`

    Similar to `SET NAMES`, the `SET NAMES 'charset_name'` statement is equivalent to the following statement combination:

    ```sql
    SET character_set_client = charset_name;
    SET character_set_results = charset_name;
    SET collation_connection = @@collation_database;
    ```

## Optimization levels of character sets and collations

String > Column > Table > Database > Server > Cluster

## General rules on selecting character sets and collation

> + Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name` are used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and `collation_name` are used directly.
```

> + Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, then `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and the default comparison collation of `CHARACTER SET charset_name` are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.
```

## Validity check of characters

For the specified `utf8` or `utf8mb4` character set, TiDB only supports the valid `utf8` character, and reports the `incorrect utf8 value` error when the character is invalid. This validity check of characters in TiDB is compatible with MySQL 8.0 but incompatible with MySQL 5.7 or earlier versions.

To disable this error reporting, use `set @@tidb_skip_utf8_check=1;` to skip the character check.

For more information, see [Connection Character Sets and Collations in MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/charset-connection.html).

## Collation support framework

The syntax support and semantic support for the collation are influenced by the [`new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap`](/reference/configuration/tidb-server/configuration-file.md#new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap) configuration item. The syntax support and semantic support are different. The former indicates that TiDB can parse and set collations. The latter indicates that TiDB can correctly use collations when comparing strings.

> Before v4.0, TiDB only supports syntactically parsing most of the MySQL collations but semantically takes all collations as binary collations, which is the [old framework for collations](#old-framework-for-collations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before v4.0, TiDB provides only the [old framework for collations](#old-framework-for-collations). In this framework, TiDB supports syntactically parsing most of the MySQL collations but semantically takes all collations as binary collations.
```

> Since v4.0, TiDB supports semantically parsing different collations and strictly following the collations when comparing strings, which is the [new framework for collations](#new-framework-for-collations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since v4.0, TiDB supports a [new framework for collations](#new-framework-for-collations). In this framework, TiDB semantically parses different collations and strictly follows the collations when comparing strings.
```

Rules:

> + Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and `collation_name` are used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then the `charset_name` character set and the `collation_name` collation are used directly.
```

> + Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` but do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, `charset_name` and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` but do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, the `charset_name` character set and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.
```

## General rules on selecting character sets and collation

> + Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and `collation_name` are used directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 1: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and `COLLATE collation_name`, then the `charset_name` character set and the `collation_name` collation are used directly.
```

> + Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, then `charset_name` and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Rule 2: If you specify `CHARACTER SET charset_name` and do not specify `COLLATE collation_name`, then the `charset_name` character set and the default collation of `charset_name` are used.
```
